As a superstitious person, I wanted to see if Punxsutawney Phil's predictions ("Full Shadow" or "No Shadow") were correct. After cleaning the data, I used a Random Forest Classifier to test whether February and March temperature data could predict Phil's annual forecast. I was curious to see if there was pattern we haven’t noticed. Fature importance analysis demonstrated that March and February average temperatures, specifically in PA and the midwest, were the most influential variables.

I created a column called "Actual Outcome" which identified if the season was actually an "early spring" or “late winter.”  I compared these values to Phil's predictions, and unfortunately learned that his forecasting is not that accurate, he is only correct about 31.9% of the time. This is worse than just random chance! I also made a heat map and a bar chart, which showed that he frequently predicted late winter when actual data suggested that it was early spring. Unfortunately, the data showed us that Punxsutawney Phil is not a reliable weather predictor :(

Future Improvements: For my decision tree, I tried changing the depth value and number of leaf nodes. Changing the depth value really did not change the accuracy greatly, showing that tree depth was not a big factor for the decision trees. Additionally, changing the number of data points required in a leaf node did not change accuracy much, indicating that the trees were stable. However, I think this dataset was smaller that I would like, and to get more accurate results, I would like to include more data points in my decision tree. More data points can reveal more interesting patterns and meaningful insights. 
